I used DreamStudio version Stable Diffusion v2.1-768. With the new website you can select the style choice you would want your images to be instead of having to type within your prompt. For the purpose of this project, I used the ‘Cinematic’ selection with a text-to-image generation. I chose an image count of one since the credit cost was 1.51 and I had around 80 credits to start with. 

The first image I generated was the blue cocktail image. I started the image generation with four images and it costed 6.05 credits. After generating this first set, I noticed that image generation has improved compared to the older website and previous images generation using text. Within the first set of four images, I found the image I wanted as the final result of the prompt. The next image I generated included a woman preparing food. I know generation can be a bit inaccurate when generating human anatomy, so I generated four different images for this one as well. Again, within the first set of images I found the composition I wanted and the human anatomy looked well for this. With this realization and wanting to save my credits, I turned the image generation down to one image for the rest of the generated images. 

The only image I generated differently was the back of the cookbook. Using text to image generation was not giving the results that I wanted, so I found an image of a cookbook online and used the image-to-image generation. There is a featured on the site that allows the user to blur the original image in order to add some variation to the image. I blurred this image to about 43% which was enough to blur the contents, but distinct enough to keep the composition of the image. 

What influenced this visual generation project was the book that others were generating. I wanted to see if I could generate images for a cookbook and see if I could get the AI to generate foods that included everything in the recipe. I only put in the prompt what would be visually seen within in the dish. For instance, if the dish included white wine, salt, pepper, shrimp, and pasta, I would only include the pasta and shrimp in the prompt. I felt including those other ingredients would generate salt and peppers shakers or a bottle of wine which wouldn’t be necessary for what I wanted the image to be.

	Artist Inspiration
What inspired for me to create this series of images was to elaborate on my previous AI generated project. I trained a couple of different genre texts and had the AI generate a small short description of either a place, weather, or a mood. I then used Chat-GPT  to generate a recipe in the format of a blog, which you usually see when looking up recipes. I used the short sentences as inspirations for the blog post and recipe as well. I felt that I could extend on this project and create finished images of what the dishes would look like.  

The first few images I generated turned out well and surprised me. However, when I started to get into the main courses I realized that the AI generation wasn’t giving me all of the components of the dish I was asking for. In fact, only one dish, the autumn salad, had all the components on the list and made it into the image and this turned out to be one of my favorite images. Even though most were missing what I had put in the prompt, at first glance the recipes do look like finished products if people were to actually make these dishes. 

The ‘Cinematic’ setting I ended up picking for the images turned out to be the best setting as the images turned out to be high quality photography photos and something that you would find cookbooks. The two lowest quality photos generated to me seem to be the person, and back of the cookbook. I can understand the back cover of the cookbook having artifacts within since this was the one image I used image to image to generate this photo. It took the text from the image and generate it’s own images from that which happen to make artifacts between some of the sentences and words. 

Overall, I was impressed with the final results and if I were to create a website, I would have all the components I needed to create one, including a section of the author have a book for sale. My inspiration for this project was to try and recreate the AI generate books that other people were doing. They had an AI generate the story, along with the images shown. I wanted to test to see if that was something I could recreate and have cohesive looking images that would match the style and flavor profile of the book. I would say this project was fairly successful and the only image that seems the most out of place would be the cocktail with its darker theme, and the background being much different than the other photos.

Link to YouTube video that has the images:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLTzsrNj2nM&ab_channel=Risky32
